README.md, before:

# gainbridge-qa-assessment
## Assumptions
1. The database is empty prior to test.
2. When id is not found it return 404
3. When post body is invalid or empty return 400
4. When deleting nonexistant book or book with reviews returns 403
5. There exists a put/patch but not specifically mentioned in the assignment.
6. The Ids are sequential starting at 1

## Paths to test
1. GET /books?genre={genre}&author={author}
2. GET /books/{id}
3. POST /books
4. DELETE /books/{id}

## Test cases

1.1 No filter - should return all available books

1.2 Genre filter - should return all books of that genre

1.2.1 Genre filter invalid - should return no books

1.3 Author filter - should return all books of that author

1.3.1 Genre filter invalid - should return no books

1.4 Both filters - should return the union of both filters

2.1 Valid id - returns one book with the id

2.2 Invalid id - returns 404


3.1 Post valid filled request body - should return a unique id and success message

3.2 Empty request body - should return 400

3.3 Invalid request body - should return 400

3.4 Null data and duplicate key data - Is there serverside validation of data for null and duplicate data?


4.1 Delete book without review - book is successfully deleted

4.2 Delete book with review - book is not deleted maybe error 403



5.1 Put/Patch test? - does this exist?

Commit message:

Updated readme with testing plan

README.md, after:

# gainbridge-qa-assessment
## Test Approach
A test framework was build around typescript and playwright. The key feature of this test framework is that the tests cases were abstracted from the tests themselves. This allows for a more data driven approach to writing new tests. Given more time I would consolidate the structure of the test cases between tests and extract them out to their own utility class.

As for the test cases, assumptions were made and are listed below. Generally the assupmtion that the database is not seeded and requires some setup prior to the test beginning. The choice of tests were driven by how likely the scenario would be encountered and the severity of the consequences of failure.

These tests themselves are not really suitable for usage in performance testing in their current state as creating a sizable performance data set would result in the test spec to grow to unreasonable sizes with the proportion of data to test code growing excessively large. Ideally the test case data would be extracted from the tests themselves. That would allow the tests to remain small and maintainable while the test data can grow arbitrarily.

## Assumptions
1. The database is empty prior to test.
2. When id is not found it return 404
3. When post body is invalid or empty return 400
4. When deleting nonexistant book or book with reviews returns 403
5. There exists a put/patch but not specifically mentioned in the assignment.
6. The Ids are sequential starting at 1

## Paths to test
1. GET /books?genre={genre}&author={author}
2. GET /books/{id}
3. POST /books
4. DELETE /books/{id}

## Test cases

1.1 No filter - should return all available books

1.2 Genre filter - should return all books of that genre

1.2.1 Genre filter invalid - should return no books

1.3 Author filter - should return all books of that author

1.3.1 Genre filter invalid - should return no books

1.4 Both filters - should return the union of both filters

2.1 Valid id - returns one book with the id

2.2 Invalid id - returns 404


3.1 Post valid filled request body - should return a unique id and success message

3.2 Empty request body - should return 400

3.3 Invalid request body - should return 400

3.4 Null data and duplicate key data - Is there serverside validation of data for null and duplicate data?


4.1 Delete book without review - book is successfully deleted

4.2 Delete book with review - book is not deleted maybe error 403



5.1 Put/Patch test? - does this exist?
